questdb-rs/README.md, before:

# QuestDB Client Library for Rust

Official Rust client for [QuestDB](https://questdb.io/), an open-source SQL
database designed to process time-series data, faster.

The client library is designed for fast ingestion of data into QuestDB via the
InfluxDB Line Protocol (ILP).

* [QuestDB Database docs](https://questdb.io/docs/)
* [Docs on InfluxDB Line Protocol](https://questdb.io/docs/reference/api/ilp/overview/)

## Quick Start

To start using `questdb-rs`, add it as a dependency of your project:

```bash
cargo add questdb-rs
```

Then you can try out this quick example, which connects to a QuestDB server
running on your local machine:

```rust no_run
use questdb::{
    Result,
    ingress::{
        Sender,
        Buffer,
        TimestampNanos}};

fn main() -> Result<()> {
   let mut sender = Sender::from_conf("http::addr=localhost:9000;")?;
   let mut buffer = Buffer::new();
   buffer
       .table("trades")?
       .symbol("symbol", "ETH-USD")?
       .symbol("side", "sell")?
       .column_f64("price", 2615.54)?
       .column_f64("amount", 0.00044)?
       .at(TimestampNanos::now())?;
   sender.flush(&mut buffer)?;
   Ok(())
}
```

## Docs

Most of the client documentation is on the
[`ingress`](https://docs.rs/questdb-rs/4.0.4/questdb/ingress/) module page.

## Crate features

This Rust crate supports a number of optional features, in most cases linked
to additional library dependencies.

For example, if you want to work with Chrono timestamps, use:

```bash
cargo add questdb-rs --features chrono_timestamp
```

### Default-enabled features

* `ilp-over-http`: Enables ILP/HTTP support via the `ureq` crate.
* `tls-webpki-certs`: Supports using the `webpki-roots` crate for TLS
  certificate verification.

### Optional features

These features are opt-in:

* `chrono_timestamp`: Allows specifying timestamps as `chrono::Datetime` objects.
* `tls-native-certs`: Supports validating TLS certificates against the OS's
  certificates store.
* `insecure-skip-verify`: Allows skipping server certificate validation in TLS
  (this compromises security).

## C, C++ and Python APIs

This crate is also exposed as a C and C++ API and in turn exposed to Python.

* This project's [GitHub page](https://github.com/questdb/c-questdb-client)
  for the C and C++ API.
* [Python bindings](https://github.com/questdb/py-questdb-client).

## Community

If you need help, have additional questions or want to provide feedback, you
may find us on [Slack](https://slack.questdb.io/).

You can also sign up to our [mailing list](https://questdb.io/community/) to
get notified of new releases.

Commit message:

feat: protocol version 2 and n-dimensional array ingestion support

questdb-rs/README.md, after:

# QuestDB Client Library for Rust

Official Rust client for [QuestDB](https://questdb.io/), an open-source SQL
database designed to process time-series data, faster.

The client library is designed for fast ingestion of data into QuestDB via the
InfluxDB Line Protocol (ILP) over either HTTP (recommended) or TCP.

* [QuestDB Database docs](https://questdb.io/docs/)
* [Docs on InfluxDB Line Protocol](https://questdb.io/docs/reference/api/ilp/overview/)

## Protocol Versions

The library supports the following ILP protocol versions.

These protocol versions are supported over both HTTP and TCP.

If you use HTTP, the library will automatically detect the server's
latest supported protocol version and use it. If you use TCP, you can specify the
`protocol_version=N` parameter when constructing the `Sender` object.

| Version | Description                                             | Server Comatibility   |
| ------- | ------------------------------------------------------- | --------------------- |
| **1**   | Over HTTP it's compatible InfluxDB Line Protocol (ILP)  | All QuestDB versions  |
| **2**   | 64-bit floats sent as binary, adds n-dimentional arrays | 8.4.0+ (2023-10-30)   |

## Quick Start

To start using `questdb-rs`, add it as a dependency of your project:

```bash
cargo add questdb-rs
```

Then you can try out this quick example, which connects to a QuestDB server
running on your local machine:

```rust no_run
use questdb::{
    Result,
    ingress::{
        Sender,
        Buffer,
        TimestampNanos}};

fn main() -> Result<()> {
   let mut sender = Sender::from_conf("http::addr=localhost:9000;")?;
  let mut buffer = sender.new_buffer();
   buffer
       .table("trades")?
       .symbol("symbol", "ETH-USD")?
       .symbol("side", "sell")?
       .column_f64("price", 2615.54)?
       .column_f64("amount", 0.00044)?
       .at(TimestampNanos::now())?;
   sender.flush(&mut buffer)?;
   Ok(())
}
```

## Docs

Most of the client documentation is on the
[`ingress`](https://docs.rs/questdb-rs/5.0.0-rc1/questdb/ingress/) module page.

## Crate features

This Rust crate supports a number of optional features, in most cases linked
to additional library dependencies.

For example, if you want to work with Chrono timestamps, use:

```bash
cargo add questdb-rs --features chrono_timestamp
```

### Default-enabled features

* `ilp-over-http`: Enables ILP/HTTP support via the `ureq` crate.
* `tls-webpki-certs`: Supports using the `webpki-roots` crate for TLS
  certificate verification.

### Optional features

These features are opt-in:

* `chrono_timestamp`: Allows specifying timestamps as `chrono::Datetime` objects.
* `tls-native-certs`: Supports validating TLS certificates against the OS's
  certificates store.
* `insecure-skip-verify`: Allows skipping server certificate validation in TLS
  (this compromises security).
* `ndarray`: Enables integration with the `ndarray` crate for working with
  n-dimensional arrays. Without this feature, you can still send slices,
  or integrate custom array types via the `NdArrayView` trait.

## C, C++ and Python APIs

This crate is also exposed as a C and C++ API and in turn exposed to Python.

* This project's [GitHub page](https://github.com/questdb/c-questdb-client)
  for the C and C++ API.
* [Python bindings](https://github.com/questdb/py-questdb-client).

## Community

If you need help, have additional questions or want to provide feedback, you
may find us on [Slack](https://slack.questdb.io/).

You can also sign up to our [mailing list](https://questdb.io/community/) to
get notified of new releases.
