doc/C.md, before:

# Getting Started with C

## Building and depending on this library
* To begin with, we suggest first building the library to ensure you have all
  the tooling and build dependencies set up just right by following the
  [build instructions](BUILD.md)
* Then read the guide for including this library as a
  [dependency from your project](DEPENDENCY.md).

## Complete Examples

**Basic Usage**
- [Basic example in C](../examples/line_sender_c_example.c)

**Authentication & Security**
- [With authentication](../examples/line_sender_c_example_auth.c)
- [With authentication and TLS](../examples/line_sender_c_example_auth_tls.c)
- [Custom certificate authority file](../examples/line_sender_c_example_tls_ca.c)

**Configuration**
- [Load configuration from file](../examples/line_sender_c_example_from_conf.c)
- [Load configuration from environment](../examples/line_sender_c_example_from_env.c)

**HTTP**
- [Example using HTTP](../examples/line_sender_c_example_http.c)

**Array Handling**
- [Array with byte strides](../examples/line_sender_c_example_array_byte_strides.c)
- [Array with element strides](../examples/line_sender_c_example_array_elem_strides.c)
- [Array in C-major order](../examples/line_sender_c_example_array_c_major.c)

**Decimal**
- [Decimal in binary format](../examples/line_sender_c_example_decimal_binary.c)

## API Overview

### Header

* [`.h` header file](../include/questdb/ingress/line_sender.h)

### Connecting

```c
#include <questdb/ingress/line_sender.h>

...

line_sender_utf8 conf = QDB_UTF8_LITERAL(
    "http::addr=localhost:9000;");

line_sender_error* err = NULL;
line_sender* sender = sender = line_sender_from_conf(&err);
if (!sender) {
    /* ... handle error ... */
}

```

See the main [client libraries](https://questdb.io/docs/reference/clients/overview/)
documentation for the full config string params, including authentication, tls, etc.

You can also connect programmatically using `line_sender_opts_new`.

### Building Messages

The `line_sender` object is responsible for connecting to the network and
sending data.

Use the `line_sender_buffer` type to construct messages (aka rows, aka records,
aka lines).

To avoid malformed messages, this object's functions (`line_sender_buffer_*`)
must be called in a specific order.

For each row, you need to specify a table name and at least one symbol or
column. Symbols must be specified before columns.

You can accumulate multiple lines (rows) with a given buffer and a buffer is
re-usable, but a buffer may only be flushed via the sender after a call to
`line_sender_buffer_at_*(..)` (preferred) or `line_sender_buffer_at_now()`.

```c
line_sender_table_name table_name = QDB_TABLE_NAME_LITERAL("trades");
line_sender_column_name symbol_name = QDB_COLUMN_NAME_LITERAL("symbol");
line_sender_column_name price_name = QDB_COLUMN_NAME_LITERAL("price");

line_sender_buffer* buffer = line_sender_buffer_new();

if (!line_sender_buffer_table(buffer, table_name, &err))
    goto on_error;

line_sender_utf8 symbol_value = QDB_UTF8_LITERAL("ETH-USD");
if (!line_sender_buffer_symbol(buffer, symbol_name, symbol_value, &err))
    goto on_error;

if (!line_sender_buffer_column_dec_str(
        buffer, price_name, "2615.54", strlen("2615.54"), &err))
    goto on_error;

if (!line_sender_buffer_at_nanos(buffer, line_sender_now_nanos(), &err))
    goto on_error;

// To insert more records, call `line_sender_buffer_table(..)...` again.

if (!line_sender_flush(sender, buffer, &err))
    goto on_error;

line_sender_buffer_free(buffer);
line_sender_close(sender);
```

Diagram of valid call order of the buffer API.

![Sequential Coupling](../api_seq/seq.svg)

## Error handling

In the C API, functions that can result in errors take a `line_sender_error**`
parameter as the last argument. When calling such functions you must check the
return value for errors. Functions that return `bool` use `false` to indicate
a failure, whilst functions that return a pointer use NULL as the failure
sentinel value.

You may then call `line_sender_error_msg(err)` and
`line_sender_error_get_code(err)` to extract error details.

Once handled, the error object *must* be disposed of by calling
`line_sender_error_free(err)`.

On error, you must also call `line_sender_close(sender)`.

Here's a complete example of how to handle an error without leaks:

```c
line_sender* sender = ...;
line_sender_error* err = NULL;
if (!line_sender_flush(sender, &err))
{
  size_t msg_len = 0;
  const char* msg = line_sender_error_msg(err, &msg_len);
  fprintf(stderr, "Could not set table name: %.*s", (int)msg_len, msg);

  // Clean-up
  line_sender_error_free(err);
  line_sender_close(sender);
  return;
}
```

This type of error handling can get error-prone and verbose,
so you may want to use a `goto` to simplify handling
(see [example](../examples/line_sender_c_example.c)).

## Further Topics

* [Data quality and threading considerations](CONSIDERATIONS.md)
* [Authentication and TLS encryption](SECURITY.md)

Commit message:

docs: add caution about column type requirement for decimal values in C and C++ documentation

doc/C.md, after:

# Getting Started with C

## Building and depending on this library
* To begin with, we suggest first building the library to ensure you have all
  the tooling and build dependencies set up just right by following the
  [build instructions](BUILD.md)
* Then read the guide for including this library as a
  [dependency from your project](DEPENDENCY.md).

## Complete Examples

**Basic Usage**
- [Basic example in C](../examples/line_sender_c_example.c)

**Authentication & Security**
- [With authentication](../examples/line_sender_c_example_auth.c)
- [With authentication and TLS](../examples/line_sender_c_example_auth_tls.c)
- [Custom certificate authority file](../examples/line_sender_c_example_tls_ca.c)

**Configuration**
- [Load configuration from file](../examples/line_sender_c_example_from_conf.c)
- [Load configuration from environment](../examples/line_sender_c_example_from_env.c)

**HTTP**
- [Example using HTTP](../examples/line_sender_c_example_http.c)

**Array Handling**
- [Array with byte strides](../examples/line_sender_c_example_array_byte_strides.c)
- [Array with element strides](../examples/line_sender_c_example_array_elem_strides.c)
- [Array in C-major order](../examples/line_sender_c_example_array_c_major.c)

**Decimal**

:::caution
When using decimal values, you must create the column with the appropriate type in
QuestDB beforehand.
:::

- [Decimal in binary format](../examples/line_sender_c_example_decimal_binary.c)

## API Overview

### Header

* [`.h` header file](../include/questdb/ingress/line_sender.h)

### Connecting

```c
#include <questdb/ingress/line_sender.h>

...

line_sender_utf8 conf = QDB_UTF8_LITERAL(
    "http::addr=localhost:9000;");

line_sender_error* err = NULL;
line_sender* sender = sender = line_sender_from_conf(&err);
if (!sender) {
    /* ... handle error ... */
}

```

See the main [client libraries](https://questdb.io/docs/reference/clients/overview/)
documentation for the full config string params, including authentication, tls, etc.

You can also connect programmatically using `line_sender_opts_new`.

### Building Messages

The `line_sender` object is responsible for connecting to the network and
sending data.

Use the `line_sender_buffer` type to construct messages (aka rows, aka records,
aka lines).

To avoid malformed messages, this object's functions (`line_sender_buffer_*`)
must be called in a specific order.

For each row, you need to specify a table name and at least one symbol or
column. Symbols must be specified before columns.

You can accumulate multiple lines (rows) with a given buffer and a buffer is
re-usable, but a buffer may only be flushed via the sender after a call to
`line_sender_buffer_at_*(..)` (preferred) or `line_sender_buffer_at_now()`.

```c
line_sender_table_name table_name = QDB_TABLE_NAME_LITERAL("trades");
line_sender_column_name symbol_name = QDB_COLUMN_NAME_LITERAL("symbol");
line_sender_column_name price_name = QDB_COLUMN_NAME_LITERAL("price");

line_sender_buffer* buffer = line_sender_buffer_new();

if (!line_sender_buffer_table(buffer, table_name, &err))
    goto on_error;

line_sender_utf8 symbol_value = QDB_UTF8_LITERAL("ETH-USD");
if (!line_sender_buffer_symbol(buffer, symbol_name, symbol_value, &err))
    goto on_error;

if (!line_sender_buffer_column_dec_str(
        buffer, price_name, "2615.54", strlen("2615.54"), &err))
    goto on_error;

if (!line_sender_buffer_at_nanos(buffer, line_sender_now_nanos(), &err))
    goto on_error;

// To insert more records, call `line_sender_buffer_table(..)...` again.

if (!line_sender_flush(sender, buffer, &err))
    goto on_error;

line_sender_buffer_free(buffer);
line_sender_close(sender);
```

Diagram of valid call order of the buffer API.

![Sequential Coupling](../api_seq/seq.svg)

## Error handling

In the C API, functions that can result in errors take a `line_sender_error**`
parameter as the last argument. When calling such functions you must check the
return value for errors. Functions that return `bool` use `false` to indicate
a failure, whilst functions that return a pointer use NULL as the failure
sentinel value.

You may then call `line_sender_error_msg(err)` and
`line_sender_error_get_code(err)` to extract error details.

Once handled, the error object *must* be disposed of by calling
`line_sender_error_free(err)`.

On error, you must also call `line_sender_close(sender)`.

Here's a complete example of how to handle an error without leaks:

```c
line_sender* sender = ...;
line_sender_error* err = NULL;
if (!line_sender_flush(sender, &err))
{
  size_t msg_len = 0;
  const char* msg = line_sender_error_msg(err, &msg_len);
  fprintf(stderr, "Could not set table name: %.*s", (int)msg_len, msg);

  // Clean-up
  line_sender_error_free(err);
  line_sender_close(sender);
  return;
}
```

This type of error handling can get error-prone and verbose,
so you may want to use a `goto` to simplify handling
(see [example](../examples/line_sender_c_example.c)).

## Further Topics

* [Data quality and threading considerations](CONSIDERATIONS.md)
* [Authentication and TLS encryption](SECURITY.md)
